this production is brought to you by the
University of Edinburgh
welcome along in this session we're
going to look at using functions in
MATLAB now functions are another type of
M file so similar to scripts but when we
execute a script the variables that we
defined in the script exist in the
current MATLAB workspace so they can be
accessed through other scripts and other
functions in a function however any
variables that you define exist only
within that function so for example if
you try and access them from the command
window you'll get an error because they
don't exist in the current MATLAB
workspace you only exist within that
function so what we're going to do in
this example is take our my circle
script that we created in the last
screencast and convert it into a
function so let's open up from the
current directory and you see that it
opens in the editor window so in a
function M file the first line is the
function definition line and that goes
at the top of the script and the first
thing that we put in it is the word
function and that just tells MATLAB that
this is a function M file now we define
the output arguments of our function and
in this case the output arguments are
the points on our circle x and y so
because there's more than one output
argument we need to use the square
bracket notation X comma Y now the name
of our function we will call that my
circle FN for a function and then the
input arguments to the function which
are enclosed in round brackets and the
only input argument we have is the
radius of the circle so that will be our
No we'll just delete our my circle em
comment because that's no longer
appropriate and we'll change the word
script to function
we'll also modify the description
slightly because as we've already said
the output of our function is going to
be the X&Y points on the circle we're
also going to adjust our variable
dictionary slightly so that we know what
the input and output arguments of our
function R so R is an input and x and y
are outputs and theta is a local
variable to this function so the next
change that we need to make to our
script is to remove the input line
because now our function will take in
the value R and there's no need to
prompt the user for it so we can just
delete that entire line from our
function and looking at the rest that
should all work fine so we can now
choose file save as and we need to make
sure we save our function with the same
name that we used in the function
definition line so that's my circle
underscore FN now we're ready to execute
our function and with functions we can't
just simply press the play button from
the editor window we need to call them
from the command line so we'll go into
the command window and we basically use
the same sand tax as the function
definition line so we'll see that we
want to output to go into X&Y and we're
calling the function my circle F N and
we're interested in plotting a circle of
radius two so our MP argument R is two
and we press Enter
and we find MATLAB returns an error
message now if you look carefully it's
telling us that there's an error at line
15 of our function so we'll click that
and it's seeing that R is not defined at
this line and the reason R is not
defined is that we've left the clear-all
command in our function and what's
happening is we are defining our as - in
the command window but when we execute
our function we're clearing that value
before we use it so we need to remove
the clear-all command from our function
we'll just save that again come back to
the command window just use the up arrow
key to get back the command and now our
function works as expected
this production is copyright the
University of Edinburgh